Corporate Portal Customisation of an approval process (#1820)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/customer_management/cp_applications.md

---
description: Customization of an approval process for new companies applications.
edition: experience
---

# Customer Portal applications

> New business customers can apply for a company account by themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New business customers can apply for a company account.
```

Applications go through the approval process in the Back Office where they can be accepted, rejected or put on hold.

> If they are accepted, the business partner will receive an invitation link to the Customer Portal,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If they are accepted, the business partner receives an invitation link to the Customer Portal,
```

where they can set up their team and manage their account.

For more information on company self-registration, see [user guide documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/shop_administration/company_self_registration/).
If provided options are too limited, you can customize an approval process by yourself.

## Roles and policies

> Any user can become application approver, as long as they have `Company Application/Workflow` Policy assigned to their Role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any user can become application approver, as long as they have the `Company Application/Workflow` Policy assigned to their Role.
```

> There, it can be defined from which states to which states the user may move applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There, you can define from which states to which states the user may move applications.
```

```suggestion
There, you can define between which states the user may move applications.
```

For example, the assistant can put new applications on hold, or reject them, and only the manager can accept them.

![Company Application Policy](img/cp_company_application_policy.png)

> ## Customer Portal applications configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Customer Portal application configuration
```

Below, you will find possible configurations for Customer Portal applications

> ## Reasons for rejecting application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reasons for rejecting application
```

> To change or add reasons for not accepting Corporate Portal application go to

Author: You can put application on hold, or send it for further review, it doesn't always refer to rejecting

`vendor/ibexa/corporate-account/src/bundle/Resources/config/default_settings.yaml`.

```yaml
parameters:
    ibexa.site_access.config.default.corporate_accounts.reasons:
        reject: [Malicious intent / Spam]
        on_hold: [Verification in progress]
```

## Timeout

Registration form locks for 5 minutes after unsuccessful registration,
if the user, for example, tried to use an email address that already exists in a Customer Portal clients database.
To change that timeframe go to `config/packages/ibexa.yaml`.

```yaml
framework:
    rate_limiter:
        corporate_account_application:
            policy: 'fixed_window'
            limit: 1
            interval: '5 minutes'
            lock_factory: 'lock.corporate_account_application.factory'
```

## Customization of an approval process

In this procedure, you will add a new status to the approval process of business account application.

### Add new status

> First, go to `config/packages/ibexa.yaml` and add `verify` status to the configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, go to `config/packages/ibexa.yaml` and add a `verify` status to the configuration:
```

```yaml
ibexa:
    system:
        default:
            corporate_accounts:
                application:
                    states: [ 'new', 'accept', 'on_hold', 'reject', 'verify' ]
```

### Create new Form Type

Next, create a new form type in `src/Form/VerifyType.php`.
It will be displayed in the application review stage.

``` php

> [[= include_file('code_samples/customer_portal/src/Form/VerifyType.php', 20, 21) =]]

Author: ```suggestion
[[= include_file('code_samples/customer_portal/src/Form/VerifyType.php', 28, 20, 21) =]]
```

> ``` php
> [[= include_file('code_samples/customer_portal/src/Form/VerifyType.php', 28, 20, 21) =]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` php hl_lines="20 21 28"
[[= include_file('code_samples/customer_portal/src/Form/VerifyType.php') =]]
```
I guess

```

Line 28 defines where the form should be displayed, line 20 adds **Note** field, and line 21 adds the **Verify** button.

### Create event subscriber to pass the form

> Add event subscriber that will pass a new form type to the frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add an event subscriber that passes a new form type to the frontend.
```

> Create `src/Corporate/EventSubscriber/ApplicationDetailsViewSubscriber.php` following below example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create `src/Corporate/EventSubscriber/ApplicationDetailsViewSubscriber.php` following the example below:
```

> ``` php
> [[= include_file('code_samples/customer_portal/src/Corporate/EventSubscriber/ApplicationDetailsViewSubscriber.php', 39) =]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` php hl_lines="39"
[[= include_file('code_samples/customer_portal/src/Corporate/EventSubscriber/ApplicationDetailsViewSubscriber.php') =]]
```

```

> In line 39, you can see `verify_form` parameter that passes the `verify` form to the application review view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In line 39, you can see the `verify_form` parameter that passes the `verify` form to the application review view.
```

### Add form template

To be able to see the changes you need to add
a new template `templates/themes/admin/corporate_account/application/details.html.twig`.

``` html+twig
[[= include_file('code_samples/customer_portal/templates/themes/admin/corporate_account/application/details.html.twig') =]]
```

> It will overwrite the default view and add **Verify** button to the review view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It overrides the default view and adds a **Verify** button to the review view.
```

To check the progress, go to **Members** -> **Applications**.
Select one application from the list and inspect application review view for a new button.

![Verify button](img/cp_new_status.png)

### Create event subscriber to verify state

Now, you need to pass the information that the button has been selected
to the list of applications to change the application status.

> Create another event subscriber that will pass the information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create another event subscriber that passes the information
```

from the created form to the application list `src/Corporate/EventSubscriber/VerifyStateEventSubscriber.php`.

> ``` php
> [[= include_file('code_samples/customer_portal/src/Corporate/EventSubscriber/VerifyStateEventSubscriber.php', 46) =]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` php hl_lines="46"
[[= include_file('code_samples/customer_portal/src/Corporate/EventSubscriber/VerifyStateEventSubscriber.php') =]]
```
